.TH RECS\-FROMMULTIRE 1 "2026-02-21" "recs 0.1.0" "RecordStream Manual"

.SH NAME
recs\-frommultire \- Match multiple regexes against each line of input (or lines of <files>)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recs frommultire [options] [<files>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Match multiple regexes against each line of input (or lines of <files>). Various parameters control when the accumulated fields are flushed to output as a record and which, if any, fields are cleared when the record is flushed. By default regexes do not necessarily flush on either side, would\-be field collisions cause a flush, EOF causes a flush if any fields are set, and all fields are cleared on a flush. Regex syntax is: \'<KEY1>,<KEY2>=REGEX\'. KEY field names are optional. If a field matches $NUM, then that match number in the regex will be used as the field name.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--no-flush-regex\fR, \fB--regex\fR, \fB--re\fR \fI<regex>\fR
Add a normal regex (no flushing).
.TP
\fB--pre-flush-regex\fR, \fB--pre\fR \fI<regex>\fR
Add a regex that flushes before interpreting fields when matched.
.TP
\fB--post-flush-regex\fR, \fB--post\fR \fI<regex>\fR
Add a regex that flushes after interpreting fields when matched.
.TP
\fB--double-flush-regex\fR, \fB--double\fR \fI<regex>\fR
Add a regex that flushes both before and after interpreting fields when matched.
.TP
\fB--clobber\fR
Do not flush records when a field from a match would clobber an already existing field and do not flush at EOF.
.TP
\fB--keep-all\fR
Do not clear any fields on a flush.
.TP
\fB--keep\fR \fI<fields>\fR
Do not clear this comma separated list of fields on a flush.

.SH EXAMPLES
Parse several fields on separate lines
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs frommultire --re \'fname,lname=^Name: (.*) (.*)$\' --re \'addr=^Address: (.*)$\'\fR
.fi
.RE

Some fields apply to multiple records (department here)
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs frommultire --post \'fname,lname=^Name: (.*) (.*)$\' --re \'department=^Department: (.*)$\' --clobber --keep team\fR
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrecs\-fromre\fR(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Bernard <perlhacker@benjaminbernard.com>

