.TH RECS\-TODB 1 "2026-02-21" "recs 0.1.0" "RecordStream Manual"

.SH NAME
recs\-todb \- Dumps a stream of input records into a database

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recs todb [options] [files...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Dumps a stream of input records into a database. The record fields you want inserted should have the same keys as the column names in the database, and the records should be key\-value pairs. This command will attempt to create the table if it is not already present.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--drop\fR
Drop the table before running create/insert commands.
.TP
\fB--table\fR \fI<name>\fR
Name of the table to work with (default: \'recs\').
.TP
\fB--debug\fR
Print all the executed SQL.
.TP
\fB--key\fR, \fB-k\fR \fI<fields>\fR
Fields to insert. Can be a name or a name=SQL_TYPE pair. If any fields are specified, they will be the only fields put into the db. May be specified multiple times or comma separated. Type defaults to VARCHAR(255).
.TP
\fB--fields\fR, \fB-f\fR \fI<fields>\fR
Fields to insert. Can be a name or a name=SQL_TYPE pair. Alias for \-\-key.
.TP
\fB--dbfile\fR \fI<path>\fR
Database file path (for SQLite).
.TP
\fB--type\fR \fI<type>\fR
Database type (sqlite).

.SH EXAMPLES
Put all records into the recs table
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs todb --type sqlite --dbfile testDb --table recs\fR
.fi
.RE

Specify fields and drop existing table
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs todb --dbfile testDb --drop --key status,description=TEXT --key user\fR
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrecs\-fromdb\fR(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Bernard <perlhacker@benjaminbernard.com>

