.TH RECS\-TOGNUPLOT 1 "2026-02-21" "recs 0.1.0" "RecordStream Manual"

.SH NAME
recs\-tognuplot \- Create a graph of points from a record stream using GNU Plot

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recs tognuplot [options] [files...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a graph of points from a record stream using GNU Plot. Defaults to creating a scatterplot of points, can also create a bar or line graph.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--key\fR, \fB-k\fR, \fB--fields\fR, \fB-f\fR \fI<keys>\fR
Keys to graph. May be specified multiple times or comma separated. If you have more than 2 keys, you must specify a \-\-using statement or use \-\-bargraph or \-\-lines.
.TP
\fB--using\fR \fI<using spec>\fR
A \'using\' string passed directly to gnuplot. You can reference keys specified with \-\-key in the order specified. May be specified multiple times.
.TP
\fB--plot\fR \fI<plot spec>\fR
A directive passed directly to plot, e.g. \-\-plot \'5 title "threshold"\'. May be specified multiple times or comma separated.
.TP
\fB--precommand\fR \fI<gnuplot spec>\fR
A command executed by gnuplot before executing plot, e.g. \-\-precommand \'set xlabel "foo"\'. May be specified multiple times or comma separated.
.TP
\fB--title\fR \fI<title>\fR
Specify a title for the entire graph.
.TP
\fB--label\fR \fI<label>\fR
Labels each \-\-using line with the indicated label.
.TP
\fB--file\fR \fI<filename>\fR
Name of output png file. Will append .png if not present. Defaults to tognuplot.png.
.TP
\fB--lines\fR
Draw lines between points. May specify more than 2 keys, each field is a line.
.TP
\fB--bargraph\fR
Draw a bar graph. May specify more than 2 keys, each field is a bar.
.TP
\fB--gnuplot-command\fR \fI<path>\fR
Location of gnuplot binary if not on path.
.TP
\fB--dump-to-screen\fR
Instead of making a graph, dump the generated gnuplot script to STDOUT.

.SH EXAMPLES
Graph the count field
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs tognuplot --field count\fR
.fi
.RE

Graph count vs. date with a threshold line
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs tognuplot --field count,date --plot "5 title \'threshold\'"\fR
.fi
.RE

Graph a complicated expression, with a label
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs tognuplot --field count,date,adjust --using \'($1-$3):2\' --label counts\fR
.fi
.RE

Graph count vs. date, with a title
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs tognuplot --field count,date --title \'counts over time\'\fR
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrecs\-togdgraph\fR(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Bernard <perlhacker@benjaminbernard.com>

