=head1 NAME

recs - Record Stream Manipulation and output

=head1 SYNOPSIS

A set of programs for creating, manipulating, and outputing a stream of
Records, or hashes.  Inspired by Monad.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The recs system consists of 3 basic sets of scripts.  Input scripts responsible
for generating streams of record objects, Manipulation scripts responsible for
analyzing, select, and manipulating records, and output scripts which take
record streams and produce output for humans.  These scripts can interface with
other systems to retrieve data, parse existing files, or just regex out some
values from a text stream.

=head1 KEY SPECS

Many of the scripts below take key arguments to specify or assign to a key in a
record. Almost all of the places where you can specify a key (which normally
means a first level key in the record), you can instead specify a key spec.

A key spec may be nested, and may index into arrays.  Use a '/' to nest into a
hash and a '#NUM' to index into an array (i.e. #2)

An example is in order, take a record like this:

  {"biz":["a","b","c"],"foo":{"bar 1":1},"zap":"blah1"}
  {"biz":["a","b","c"],"foo":{"bar 1":2},"zap":"blah2"}
  {"biz":["a","b","c"],"foo":{"bar 1":3},"zap":"blah3"}

In this case a key spec of 'foo/bar 1' would have the values 1,2, and 3
respectively.

Similarly, 'biz/#0' would have the value of 'a' for all 3 records

You can also prefix key specs with '@' to engage the fuzzy matching logic

Matching works like this in order, first key to match wins
  1. Exact match ( eq )
  2. Prefix match ( m/^/ )
  3. Match anywehre in the key (m//)

So, in the above example '@b/#2', the 'b' portion would expand to 'biz' and 2
would be the index into the array, so all records would have the value of 'c'

Simiarly, @f/b would have values 1, 2, and 3

=head1 SCRIPTS

=head2 Input Generation

=over 4

=item recs-fromcsv

Produces records from a csv file/stream

=item recs-fromdb

Produces records for a db table, or from a SELECT statment into a db.

=item recs-fromre

Matches input streams against a regex, puts capture groups into hashes

=item recs-frommultire

Matches input streams against several regexs, puts capture groups into the record

=item recs-fromsplit

Splits input stream on a delimeter

=item recs-fromps

Generate records from the process tree

=item recs-fromatomfeed

Produces records for an optionally paginated atom feed.

=item recs-fromxml

Produces records for an XML document.

=item recs-fromkv

Produces records from input streams containing loosely formed key/value pairs

=back

=head2 Stream Manipulation

=over 4

=item recs-collate

Perforce aggregation operations on records.  Group by a field, get an average,
sum, corellation, etc.  Very powerful

=item recs-delta

Transform values into deltas between adjacent records

=item recs-eval

Eval a string of perl against each record

=item recs-flatten

Flatten records of input to one level

=item recs-grep

Select records for which a string of perl evaluates to true.

=item recs-normalizetime

Based on a time field, tag records with a normalized time, i.e. every 5 minute buckets

=item recs-join

Perform an inner join of two record streams.  Associate records in one stream
with another stream.

=item recs-sort

Sort records based on keys, may specify multiple levels of sorting, as well as
numerical or lexical sort ordering

=item recs-topn

Outputs the top n records. You may segment the input based on a list of keys
such that unique values of keys are treated as distinct input streams. This
enables top n listings per value groupings.

=item recs-xform

Perform a block of perl on each record, which may modify the record, Record is
then output

=item recs-generate

Perform a block of perl on each record to generate a record stream, which is
then output with a chain link back to the original record.

=back

=head2 Output Generation

=over 4

=item recs-todb

Inserts records into a DBI supported SQL database.  Will crate a local sqlite
database by default

=item recs-tognuplot

Create a graph of field values in a record using GNU Plot.

=item recs-totable

Pretty prints a table of results.

=item recs-tohtml

Prints out an html table of the record stream

=item recs-toprettyprint

Prettily prints records, one key to a line, great for making sense of very large records

=item recs-toptable

Prints a multi-dimensional (pivot) table of values.  Very powerful.

=back

=head1 NOTES

The data stream format of the recs scripts is JSON hashes separated by new
lines.  If you wish to write your own recs script in your own language, just
get a JSON parser and you should be good to go.  The recs scripts use
JSON::Syck, a fast xs-binding of a c implementation of a YAML parser/outputer

=head1 EXAMPLES

  # look in the access log for all accesses with greater than 5 seconds, display in a table
  cat access.log | recs-fromre --fieds ip,time '^(\d+).*TIME: (\d+)' | recs-grep '$r->{time} > 5' | recs-totable

=head1 SEE ALSO

Each of the recs-* scripts discussed have a --help mode available to print out
usage and examples for the particular script, See that documentation for
detailed information on the operation of each of the scripts

=head1 AUTHOR

  Benjamin Bernard <perlhacker@benjaminbernard.com>
  Keith Amling <keith.amling@gmail.com>
 
=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2007 by Benjamin Bernard and Keith Amling
This software is released under the Public Domain
