.TH RECS\-TOGDGRAPH 1 "2026-02-23" "recs 0.1.0" "RecordStream Manual"

.SH NAME
recs\-togdgraph \- Create a bar, scatter, or line graph

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recs togdgraph [options] [files...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a bar, scatter, or line graph. Generates an image file from the record stream.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--key\fR, \fB-k\fR, \fB--fields\fR, \fB-f\fR \fI<keyspec>\fR
Specify keys that correlate to keys in JSON data.
.TP
\fB--option\fR, \fB-o\fR \fI<option=val>\fR
Specify custom options for the graph.
.TP
\fB--label-x\fR \fI<val>\fR
Specify X\-axis label.
.TP
\fB--label-y\fR \fI<val>\fR
Specify Y\-axis label.
.TP
\fB--graph-title\fR \fI<val>\fR
Specify graph title.
.TP
\fB--png-file\fR \fI<val>\fR
Specify output PNG filename (default: togdgraph.png).
.TP
\fB--type\fR \fI<val>\fR
Specify graph type: scatter (default), line, or bar.
.TP
\fB--width\fR \fI<val>\fR
Specify graph width (default: 600).
.TP
\fB--height\fR \fI<val>\fR
Specify graph height (default: 300).
.TP
\fB--dump-use-spec\fR
Dump usage spec (used mainly for testing).

.SH EXAMPLES
Create a scatter plot of uid vs ct
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs togdgraph --key uid,ct --png-file login-graph.png --graph-title \'# of logins\' --label-x user --label-y logins\fR
.fi
.RE

Create a line graph
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs togdgraph --key uid,ct --type line\fR
.fi
.RE

Customize with additional graph options
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs togdgraph --key uid,ct --option boxclr=pink --label-y logins --label-x user --option labelclr=yellow\fR
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrecs\-tognuplot\fR(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Bernard <perlhacker@benjaminbernard.com>

