.TH RECS\-TOCHART 1 "2026-02-23" "recs 0.1.0" "RecordStream Manual"

.SH NAME
recs\-tochart \- Render charts in the terminal from a record stream

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recs tochart [options] [files...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Render charts in the terminal from a record stream. Supports bar charts (horizontal Unicode block characters), line charts (braille\-dot canvas), scatter plots (braille\-dot canvas), and sparklines (vertical block characters). Can optionally write SVG output to a file.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--key\fR, \fB-k\fR, \fB--fields\fR, \fB-f\fR \fI<keys>\fR
Value keys to chart. May be specified multiple times or comma\-separated.
.TP
\fB--type\fR \fI<type>\fR
Chart type: bar (horizontal bars), line (braille line plot), scatter (braille scatter), sparkline (compact block characters). Default: bar.
.TP
\fB--title\fR \fI<title>\fR
Title displayed above the chart.
.TP
\fB--width\fR \fI<n>\fR
Chart width in characters. Default: 80.
.TP
\fB--height\fR \fI<n>\fR
Chart height in character rows. Default: 20.
.TP
\fB--label-key\fR \fI<key>\fR
Key to use for bar labels or x\-axis category names. If not specified, records are labeled by index.
.TP
\fB--color\fR, \fB--no-color\fR
Enable or disable ANSI color output. Colors are enabled by default.
.TP
\fB--output-file\fR \fI<file>\fR
Write an SVG chart to the specified file instead of rendering to the terminal.
.TP
\fB--dump-spec\fR
Dump parsed configuration and data lines (for testing).

.SH EXAMPLES
Bar chart of counts by user
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs tochart --key ct --label-key uid\fR
.fi
.RE

Line chart of values
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs tochart --key value --type line --title \'Values over time\'\fR
.fi
.RE

Scatter plot of x vs y
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs tochart --key x,y --type scatter\fR
.fi
.RE

Sparkline of a value field
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs tochart --key value --type sparkline\fR
.fi
.RE

Save chart as SVG
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs tochart --key ct --label-key uid --output-file chart.svg\fR
.fi
.RE

Multiple series bar chart
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs tochart --key sales,profit --label-key region --title \'By Region\'\fR
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrecs\-tognuplot\fR(1), \fBrecs\-togdgraph\fR(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Bernard <perlhacker@benjaminbernard.com>

