.TH RECS\-PARSEDATE 1 "2026-02-23" "recs 0.1.0" "RecordStream Manual"

.SH NAME
recs\-parsedate \- Parse date/time strings from a field and output them in a normalized format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recs parsedate [options] [files...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Parse date/time strings from a field and output them in a normalized format. Supports epoch seconds, ISO 8601, and custom strftime\-style format strings for both input and output.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--key\fR, \fB-k\fR \fI<key>\fR
Key field containing the date/time string to parse.
.TP
\fB--output\fR, \fB-o\fR \fI<key>\fR
Output key for the parsed date (defaults to \'parsed_<key>\').
.TP
\fB--format\fR, \fB-f\fR \fI<format>\fR
Input format for parsing (strftime\-style). Common directives: %Y (4\-digit year), %m (month), %d (day), %H (hour 24h), %M (minute), %S (second), %b (abbreviated month name), %p (AM/PM).
.TP
\fB--output-format\fR, \fB-F\fR \fI<format>\fR
Output format (strftime\-style). Defaults to ISO 8601 if not specified.
.TP
\fB--epoch\fR, \fB-e\fR
Input date is in epoch seconds.
.TP
\fB--output-epoch\fR, \fB-E\fR
Output as epoch seconds instead of a formatted string.
.TP
\fB--timezone\fR, \fB-z\fR \fI<timezone>\fR
Timezone for output formatting (IANA name like \'America/New_York\').

.SH EXAMPLES
Parse dates and output as epoch seconds
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs parsedate -k date -E\fR
.fi
.RE

Parse a custom date format and reformat it
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs parsedate -k timestamp -f \'%d/%b/%Y:%H:%M:%S\' -F \'%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S\'\fR
.fi
.RE

Convert epoch seconds to ISO 8601
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs parsedate -k time -e -o iso_time\fR
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrecs\-normalizetime\fR(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Bernard <perlhacker@benjaminbernard.com>

