.TH RECS\-FROMCSV 1 "2026-02-24" "recs 0.1.0" "RecordStream Manual"

.SH NAME
recs\-fromcsv \- Each line of input (or lines of <files>) is split on commas to produce an output record

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recs fromcsv [options] [<files>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Each line of input (or lines of <files>) is split on commas to produce an output record. Fields are named numerically (0, 1, etc.), or as given by \-\-key, or as read by \-\-header. Lines may be split on delimiters other than commas by providing \-\-delim.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--key\fR, \fB-k\fR \fI<keys>\fR
Comma separated list of field names. May be specified multiple times, may be key specs.
.TP
\fB--field\fR, \fB-f\fR \fI<keys>\fR
Comma separated list of field names. May be specified multiple times, may be key specs.
.TP
\fB--header\fR
Take field names from the first line of input.
.TP
\fB--strict\fR
Do not trim whitespace, allow loose quoting (quotes inside quotes), or allow the use of escape characters when not strictly needed.
.TP
\fB--delim\fR, \fB-d\fR \fI<character>\fR
Field delimiter to use when reading input lines (default \',\').
.TP
\fB--escape\fR \fI<character>\fR
Escape character used in quoted fields (default \'"\').
.TP
\fB--quote\fR \fI<character>\fR
Quote character used in quoted fields (default \'"\'). Use the empty string to indicate no quoted fields.

.SH EXAMPLES
Parse csv separated fields x and y
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs fromcsv --field x,y\fR
.fi
.RE

Parse data with a header line specifying fields
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs fromcsv --header\fR
.fi
.RE

Parse tsv data (using bash syntax for a literal tab)
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fBrecs fromcsv --delim $\'\\t\'\fR
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrecs\-fromsplit\fR(1), \fBrecs\-fromre\fR(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Bernard <perlhacker@benjaminbernard.com>

